# Running Roast Simulations

In this practical section, I will provide a step-by-step guide on how to run a simulation using ROAST. 
I will also go through some of the most common issues that may arise during the process and how to solve them. 

A few useful notes to go through this section:
- The main script to run the simulation is [`bin/run_roast.m`](../bin/run_roast.m). You will be running this via matlab, and I recommend running it section by section (right click on the section -> run section) to understand what each part of the code does.
- Some issues might arise when running roast. I added a few comments to the code to help debug and fix the issues.
- You are free to use you test data, or the data we downloaded in the readme section. However, the folder roast/examples contains numerous T1 and T2 scans that can be used to test the pipeline. 
- ROAST generates a lot of output files during the simulation (i.e., segmentations, meshes etc). I suggest creating a folder and copy-paste the scan(s) that you want to use there, and rename them in a way that you can easily identify the raw data from the output files (i.e., 'sub1_t1_test.nii'). When re-running a simulation, if ROAST detects that some of the output files already exist, it might skip some steps of the pipeline. This can be handy if you don't want to re-run some steps such as the segmentation, but it can also be a problem if you want to re-run the whole pipeline.
- The results generated by ROAST can also be opened and analised with python. Some libraries that can be used to handle nifti files are `nibabel` and `nilearn`. If you are interested in this, I suggest you to check the [python environment](../bin/assets/python_environment.md) section of the repository.
